---
layout: post
title: "Sec-1-Secret"
subtitle: "Do you hide keys under the flowerpot?"
date: 2020-04-20 12:54:00
author: "Jason Denn"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: true
tags:
  - Foundation - security
  - Secret
  - UNSW 6441
---

### Secret

The information that they contain is interesting or valuable!

| *Advantages*                                                 | *Disadvantages*                                              |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| - The secret can build trust can be part of community building, allows us to be close to each other | Easily spread, no longer secret                              |
| - Information is valuable E.g. with all our data we want that value and the idea that           there is a secret you don't know is intoxicating | - Secrets can create distrust annoyed that you don’t know the secret |
| - Keeps valuables safe. E.g. secret code to a safe           | - Secrets can be used as leverage - blackmail E.g. security clearance: try to find out if someone can be blackmailed E.g. blackmail students about their false credentials |
|                                                              | - Can build false trust E.g. Once you know someone has had secrets, even if they then honest and tell you secrets, you can never be sure they've told you all the secrets once you know they're prepared to keep things secret from you. |

#### Intro example -- telegraph puzzle

- Interfering with a bank communication line. 

  - Can pretend to authenticate a transaction by pretending to work for the bank (injecting messages)
  - Listen to confidential information

​	Key scenarios to account for:

A (civilian using bank branch)

B (bank home office)



1. A to B (I’m Richard)

2. B to A (you've got 100 credits)

3. A to B (I want 2 credits)

4. B to A (ok here you go, you now have 2 credits)



Possible Attack 1:

​	-> cut wire in the middle

​	-> listen to messages in the middle

​	-> Steal the authentication (password/secret)

​	-> Then they can do transactions going forward.



Possible Attack 2:

​	-> Impersonate the head office

​	-> Person C can say I want money from the account

​	-> I.e. impersonating Richard

​	-> bank says not authenticated.

​	-> but can snip the wire and send it to a remote site (yep its all good.)



​	Conclusion:

- Basically, if it’s a **bare wire**, and people can hear it, alter the message, intercept the message and stop it. And people can **inject** new messages into the wire to talk to either party. Then we've got problems.
- No way to make sure that messages aren't **corrupted or read**. 
- That's exactly what the Internet was like. There are no secrets. (Open link)





#### Problems of symmetry

> How can you tell the difference between the good guys and the bad guys?

- Unless there's an asymmetry in the communication.

Without asymmetry, anything the good guy can do the bad guy can do.

- The only way to fix this is to introduce an asymmetry.

- - They don’t appear the same to an observer on the link.
  - The only way of introducing such an asymmetry is: the good guy knows a secret that the bad guy doesn't know.

- Problems with secrets:

- - The good guy could forget the secret.
  - Someone could overhear the secret.
  - The good guy could tell someone else the secret.



> Recommended Reading: The Codebreakers, David Kahn 

- about Confidentiality, which is going to be talked next week

- Steganography

#### History of communicating secrets

**Steganography**

- A “hide-in-plain-sight” technique for concealing information by embedding a message within an innocuous cover message. 

- - hiding the fact that you are sharing a message

  - The first way people tried to have secret messages

  - E.g. tattoo the message on the slaves’ head and let the hair grow out; writing underneath wax tablets; pinprick code 

- *Strengths*: 
  - You only need to know how to recover the message, you don’t know that there is anything to find.
  - In fact, the knowledge of how to recover the message IS the secret, good guys have it, bad guys don’t.
  - Search space of decoding techniques is very large, therefore harder to brute force. 
  - The search space is much larger, anything that could be sent, or done could potentially be a message. 
  - Bad guys don’t know if there is anything to find, so they aren’t necessarily looking. 
- Weaknesses:

  - Once the secret is out, the secret is completely blown



#### Six design principles for military ciphers

> Auguste Kerckhoff (1883)

1. The system must be practically, if not mathematically, indecipherable.

2. The system/method itself must not be required to be secret, and it must be able to fall into the hands of the enemy without inconvenience. (the truth and the most important thing)

   > I think it means without leaking any value able data. But there might be an inconvenience that your enemey has this system to protect their secret as well. 

3. Key must be communicable and retainable without the help of written notes, and changeable or modifiable at the will of the correspondents. 
4. It must be applicable to telegraphic correspondence.
5. Apparatus and documents must be portable, and its usage and function must not require the concourse of several people.
6. The system must be easy to use, requiring neither mental strain nor the knowledge of a long series of rules to observe.



#### The truth and the most important thing: system is not secret

- The system you are using can’t be secret. The enemy can get the system you’re using and it is still safe. 

  > The Caesar Cipher is not like that.

- Not make the method a secret.

- - If keeping the method secret, people can't scrutinize it and test it, 
  - If people can scrutinize and test it, they can find the weaknesses. 
  - In case fall into the overconfidence of the defender since systems are always unsafe.

- Having an open system allows people to review and improve the system. 

- - **Security via obscurity rarely works**, as people will always find a way to penetrate the system. 
  - One should not have total faith security of a system.
  - The faith that we have for the system is generally about how hard it is to crack it by using brute force, and the attacker always finds some other shorter way.

- E.g. Enigma machine



#### Security through obscurity

> E.g. hide the key outside the house

- Security through obscurity (or security by obscurity) is the reliance in security engineering on a design or implementation secrecy as the main method of providing security to a system or component. 
- Security experts have rejected this view as far back as 1851, and advise that obscurity should never be the **only security mechanism**. (Wikipedia)
- E.g. Rubix cube

Do not think you're getting any security by keeping something obscure and secret. Make it that you're getting security from things that have been tested. The security should rely on the key. 



#### Claude Shannon: “The enemy knows the system”

- Kerckhoffs's principle was reformulated by American mathematician Claude Shannon as "the enemy knows the system".

-  "one ought to design systems under the assumption that the enemy will immediately gain full familiarity with them". In that form, it is called Shannon's maxim. 

- - You still need to be safe even when the enemy knows the system.
  - Your entire security needs to rest on the key, not on other things that you can't be sure about how good they are.

- This concept is widely embraced by cryptographers, in contrast to "security through obscurity", which is not. (Wikipedia)





#### Side-channel

Side-channel: (information leaking where people don’t think of checking)

> Information leaks -> poker tells

How do you know what is in your partner’s hands 

- Bidding process

- - Legal bids: 6, 7, 8, 9, 10
  - Which suits will be trump suit / winning suit

- First time only 25 bids

- Next bid = less than 25 bids

- Players use bids to transmit information about what is in their hands

- - Measuring information, how much info do you need to give?
  - How many binary bits of info to specify between 1 and 25
  - -> 2^5 -> 32, so 5 bits

- Bridge players come up with clever ways to pack information into 5 bids

- Opponents also know what bidding system is 



One night ultimate werewolf

- Everyone has a secret, everyone tries to work out who is the werewolf



##### Famous side channel attacks:

- Spectre 

- Secret Ballot - Dutch voting electronically

- - EMF receivers near voting 
  - Can detect leakage out of TV screens remotely

- Hotel rooms: brushing lead over the notepad to see imprint of previous message 

- Certain processes take more power in chips, measure amount of power and where it's going to do a **power attack** 

- Able to extract keys by listening to the frequency of CPU humming

- You can work out which fork program takes and reverse engineer passwords



Locard’s exchange principle - Forensic Science:

- **Every contact leaves a trace** 

- There is evidence and impact on the world

- This became the basics of forensics science: physical traces left behind is used to give clues and traced back to who/what left it there 

- We shed information all the time 

- Hard to keep secrets because hard to rule all ALL side channels

  > Columbo: old tv show, a whodunnit show 
  >
  > Columbo watched tiny little clues to solve the mystery 





