---
layout: post
title: "The Trouble with Passwords"
subtitle: ""
date: 2020-04-28 16:00:00
author: "Jason Denn"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: true
tags:
  - security
  - password
---

Good passwords are hard to come up with.
There's a big problem with passwords - most people suck at coming up with them. Just have a look at a few rules of choosing a strong password:

- long enough

  > longer than 12 might be ok at the moment, but this safe length grows every year.

- unique to each site
- should have lower case letters, upper case letters, numbers, symbols
- avoid using words in it

I can say, strong passwords are human unfriendly if not torturous.

Want to test how strong a password is? Check this website: https://www.grc.com/haystack.htm

> Don't test your real password. Who knows whether this website records your password or not.

## Avoiding Password Re-use

> To be contined

## How to Create Strong Passwords

There are a few common methods for coming up with a password.

Passphrase method – Come up with a nonsensical yet memorable phrase comprising of about seven words or so, that incorporates some numbers and symbols. For example you might choose “theyellowrosessmellgoodinsummer”, which you could then augment by adding numbers and symbols : “the3Yellowrosessmell=goodins()mmer”. This is strong.

Abbreviated passphrase – Similarly to the passphrase method, this time come up with a longer unique phrase and choose the first letter of each word. Be sure to include capitals, numbers and symbols some where you always do.
This one is very friendly. You can pick a sentence from Bible or your dairy.
For example, Matthew 28:20 (NIV): "And surely I am with you always, to the very end of the age." => `(J)AsIawya,ttveota.`; `(J)` stands for `(Jesus said)`

> Note that you need to add your personalisation rule to it. Because other people might chose sentence from popular book as well.

Read more: XKCD password

#### Fun exercise

Writer a letter to your grandparents that convinces them

- why they should care about strong and unique passwords
- suggestions or tips for how they can start changing their password habits. Post the letter (Minus any personal details) as a comment.

Here is my letter, which is just a demo and never sent.

> Dear Grandpa!
>
> How are you?
>
> Your computer-guy here wanna show some fun trick that might protect you from those password-troubles.
>
> Why you need these?
>
> Maybe, because you don't want bad guys to log in to your eBay account and buy some stuff with your money.
>
> So...... what is the trick that can create a good password without torment?
>
> My suggestion is "First Letter and Salt":
>
> - Pick a sentence from a book you like, say Matthew 28:20 (NIV): "And surely I am with you always, to the very end of the age."
>
> - Gether all first letter together to be a weird long word: `AsIawyattveota`.
>
> - Insert some "salt" into it one by one. Say `%`, `&`, `(` `@`
>
>   Now you have this `%A&s(I@awyattveota` supper supper strong password.
>
> - You only need to write down this: `Matthew 28:20 NIV` and `% & (@`
>
> Do you like it? Let me know if you got any problems.
>
> Your computer kid.
